Docs/Backlog.md, before:

#### Upcoming
  1. Pitwall timing application with full information about all cars on the track
     - Timings
	 - Incidents
	 - Drivers
	 - Number of pitstops
	 - Relative performance

#### Simulation Support
  1. Better integration with the weather forecast data of *rFactor 2*
  2. Make selection of repair settings more reliable in ACC

#### Assistants
  1. Overhaul (shortening) of Assistant phrases
  2. Support for Full Course Yellow rules in the Assistants
  3. More (configurable) verbosity for the Spotter, for example earlier announcements of cars approaching from behind (depending on the distance of the car behind)
  4. Information by the Spotter about track cuts and penalties issued by race control
  5. Allow to set number of laps for fixed-lap races in "Race Settings".

#### Setup Advisor
  1. General detection of counter steering in the telemetry analyzer
  2. Collect telemetry data from multiple drivers and generate combined setup recommendations

#### Plugins
  1. Definition of motion feedback settings for different tracks and cars, selectable by the touch of a button
  
#### General
  1. Choosing a specific theme depending on the selected simulation game
  2. Further simplification of the overall configuration process. Overhaul of "Race Settings", "Simulator Settings" and "Simulator Configuration"
  3. Integrate WebView2 with Edge to cope with the pending shutdown of IE 11 (https://www.autohotkey.com/boards/viewtopic.php?f=83&t=79868)
  4. Port all AHK applications to AutoHotkey 2.0.2
  5. Full system-wide support for culture- or country-specific units, number formats and other localization stuff

Commit message:

Optimized pressure loss warning in pitstop planing

Docs/Backlog.md, after:

#### Upcoming
  1. Pitwall timing application with full information about all cars on the track
     - Timings
	 - Incidents
	 - Drivers
	 - Number of pitstops
	 - Relative performance

#### Simulation Support
  1. Better integration with the weather forecast data of *rFactor 2*
  2. Make selection of repair settings more reliable in ACC

#### Assistants
  1. Overhaul (shortening) of Assistant phrases
  2. Support for Full Course Yellow rules in the Assistants
  3. More (configurable) verbosity for the Spotter, for example earlier announcements of cars approaching from behind (depending on the distance of the car behind)
  4. Information by the Spotter about track cuts and penalties issued by race control
  5. Allow to set number of laps for fixed-lap races in "Race Settings".
  6. Enter planned pitstops into the pitstop list in "Race Center" with status => "Planned", "Performed"

#### Setup Advisor
  1. General detection of counter steering in the telemetry analyzer
  2. Collect telemetry data from multiple drivers and generate combined setup recommendations

#### Plugins
  1. Definition of motion feedback settings for different tracks and cars, selectable by the touch of a button
  
#### General
  1. Choosing a specific theme depending on the selected simulation game
  2. Further simplification of the overall configuration process. Overhaul of "Race Settings", "Simulator Settings" and "Simulator Configuration"
  3. Integrate WebView2 with Edge to cope with the pending shutdown of IE 11 (https://www.autohotkey.com/boards/viewtopic.php?f=83&t=79868)
  4. Port all AHK applications to AutoHotkey 2.0.2
  5. Full system-wide support for culture- or country-specific units, number formats and other localization stuff
