Docs/Overview.md, before:

Welcome to the Simulator Controller documentation. Here you will find everything to understand, install, setup and use your complete solution for getting the best experience from your immersive simulationn games. The documentation is devided into the following sections:

  - [README](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/blob/main/README.md)  
    Useful information about Simulator Controller project and its functions & features. 

  - [Release Notes](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Release-Notes)  
    Here you will find information about the current or previous releases. Even infos for the next upcoming stable release are included.
	
  - [Installation & Setup](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Installation-&-Setup)   
    Maybe the most important part of the documentation, this part decribes how to install and setup Simulator Controller. Especially the second part gives you complete information how to configure all parts to be a perfect fit to your simulation equipment.  
	
  - [Using Simulator Controller](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Using-Simulator-Controller)  
    General information how to start and use the Simulator Controller and how to use the available runtime options.	 
	
  - [Plugin & Modes](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Plugins-&-Modes)  
    Reference information for all the builtin plugins and modes.  
	
  - [Development Guide](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Development-Overview-&-Concepts)  
    Complete set of information for developers, who want to create their own plugins or even contribute to the further development of Simulator Controller.
  
If you have any questions that have not been answered here, please feel free to contact me, but please be sure to have read anything related in the documentation in advance. If you want to report a bug, please open an issue. And last, but not least, if you want to contribute, feel free to contact me as well.

Commit message:

New Backlog overview for the documentation

Docs/Overview.md, after:

Welcome to the Simulator Controller documentation. Here you will find everything to understand, install, setup and use your complete solution for getting the best experience from your immersive simulationn games. The documentation is devided into the following sections:

  - [README](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/blob/main/README.md)  
    Useful information about Simulator Controller project and its functions & features. 

  - [Release Notes](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Release-Notes)  
    Here you will find information about the current or previous releases. Even infos for the next upcoming stable release are included.
	
  - [Installation & Setup](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Installation-&-Setup)   
    Maybe the most important part of the documentation, this part decribes how to install and setup Simulator Controller. Especially the second part gives you complete information how to configure all parts to be a perfect fit to your simulation equipment.  
	
  - [Using Simulator Controller](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Using-Simulator-Controller)  
    General information how to start and use the Simulator Controller and how to use the available runtime options.	 
	
  - [Plugin & Modes](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Plugins-&-Modes)  
    Reference information for all the builtin plugins and modes.  
	
  - [Development Guide](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Development-Overview-&-Concepts)  
    Complete set of information for developers, who want to create their own plugins or even contribute to the further development of Simulator Controller.
	
  - [Development Backlog](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Backlog)  
    You may alos want to take a look at the backlog of upcoming features.
  
If you have any questions that have not been answered here, please feel free to contact me, but please be sure to have read anything related in the documentation in advance. If you want to report a bug, please open an issue. And last, but not least, if you want to contribute, feel free to contact me as well.
