Docs/Virtual Race Spotter.md, before:

## Introduction

Elisa, the Virtual Race Spotter is a part of the Race Assistant family of Simulator Controller. As a spotter, Elisa watches over your car and all the cars around you. Elisa will warn you about critical situations, for example, when a car appears in your blind spot, or when a car is chasing you from behind. Furthermore, Elisa will inform you periodically about other aspects of the traffic around you, for example, when one of the leading cars is closing in from behind and you are getting a blue flag.

## Alerts & Information

The Spotter will give you critical and in most cases real time information about the current race situation. This helps you to keep track and stay out of trouble. In detail:

1. Proximity Alerts

   This real time information will highlight other cars on your side and directly behind you. Elisa will warn you about cars on your left and on your right (as well as three wide situations) and will also inform you, when the situation has cleared up. A warning will also be issued, when a car is very near to your back of your car, typically closing in for a pass maneuver. Elisa will use a path prediction algorithm, therefore sometimes you will get not only a warning that a car is at your rear, but also a hint, on which side the passing maneuver might take place. This may give you the opportunity to respond with countermeasures.

2. Yellow Flag Warnings

   When a yellow flag has been raised, you will get a warning from Elisa. Typically, you will get information about the sector, which is under yellow and sometimes also the distance into the track, where the incident happend. You will get a special warning for full course yellow and Elisa will also information you, when the yellow phase hase ended and the track is green again.

3. Blue Flag Warnings

   Once a lapping car appears behind, you will get a blue flag warning. This typically appears, when the faster car is less than 2 seconds behind. If there is also a direct opponent currently behind you, you will be informed about that as well, so that you can be cautios to not let this car pass together with the lapping car.

4. Pit Window Information

   Elisa will inform you when the timed window or the designated lap for a required pitstop arrived. Elisa will inform you also, when the pit closes again.

5. Start Performance Summary

   You will get an update whether you gained or lost places during the start phase a few laps into the race.

6. Opponent Information

   Elisa observes your direct opponents behind and in front of you and informs you, whether you can catch up the car in front or whether you need to pay attention to the car behind you. Please take a look at the dedicated section about [Opponent and Delta Information](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Virtual-Race-Spotter#opponent-and-delta-information) down below for more detailed information.

7. Last Laps Announcement

   You will get an announcement a few laps before the end of the race.

All these alerts and announcements can be individually configured or disabled with the configuration tool for each simulator. Please consult the [corresponding documentation](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Installation-&-Configuration#tab-race-spotter) for more information. 

![](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/blob/main/Docs/Images/Configuration%20Tab%2011.JPG)

Please note, that not every simulation will support all these capabilities and that the behaviour will be very different in each simulation. This is due to the fact, that the provided data differs heavily between the different simulations. Please see the section below for detailed information.

### Opponent and Delta Information

Elisa tracks the positions, lap times and the deltas to your own car for four different other cars, the cars directly in front and behind you as well as the car one race position before and one race position behind you:

  - Relevant changes in the deltas to these cars will be updated each sector and the Spotter might inform you about any changes each sector, each lap, each second lap, and so on, according to your choices in the ["Race Spotter" tab in configuration tool](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Installation-&-Configuration#tab-race-spotter). It will take one lap for Elisa to collect all sector timings for each of these four cars, before Elisa will inform you, whether you have gained or lost to the given car. This will be reset, once you have been overtaken or when you overtook the car in front of you.

  - A special case is a situation where you are in attack position to the car in front of you or when the car behind is in attack range. This information will be issued as soon as possible, as long you are faster than the car in front of you or the car behind is faster than you.
  
  - Another special case occurs, when you are approaching a car in front of you which is a lap up or a lap down. Elisa will give you the corresponding information annd additional tactical information about these cars.

When you approach a car in front of you, Elisa will gather all available information for the given car, whether the driver is quite inconsistent or is doing a lot of mistakes, and so on. Depending on the situation, Elisa might give you this information and will ask you to be careful, if necessary.

Elise uses different delta thresholds to decide, whether the situation changed to an extent that an update will be of any value for you. You can define your own thresholds in the "Race Settings" in the ["Session Database"](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Virtual-Race-Engineer#managing-the-session-database). See the table below for the thresholds and their default values.

| Threshold                | Default Value (Seconds) |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------- |
| Lap up car in range      | 1.0                     |
| Lap down car in range    | 2.0                     |
| Attack car in front      | 0.8                     |
| Gained on car in front   | 0.3                     |
| Lost on car in front     | 1.0                     |
| Attack car behind        | 0.8                     |
| Lost on car behind       | 0.3                     |
| Gained on car behind     | 1.5                     |

### Enabling and disabling specific warnings and announcements

As you have seen above, Elisa will give you a lot of warnings and announcements about traffic and the overall race situation. You may disable these announcements by using a special voice command:

	[Please] No more *announcement* [please]

As you might expect, the word "please" is optional. Available options for *announcement* are: "delta information", "side alerts", "rear alerts", "blue flag warnings", "yellow flag warnings". After you have disabled one of the warnings (all are enabled or disabled by default according to the settings described above), you can reenable it with the following command:

	[Please] Give me *announcement* [please]

## Simulator Integration

As mentioned, each simulator is different. The Spotter will make as much out of the data supplied by the simulation as possible, as long as a specific information is available, even if it is somewhat restricted. The following table shows you which capability of the Spotter is available in the different simulators.

| Capability                | Assetto Corsa Competizione | Automobilista 2 | iRacing | RaceRoom Racing Experience | rFactor 2 |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------- | --------------- | ------- | -------------------------- | --------- |
| Side Alert                | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Behind Alert              | Yes                        | Yes             | No (1)  | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Yellow Flag               | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Full Course Yellow        | Yes                        | No              | No      | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Sector Yellow             | Yes                        | No              | No      | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Yellow Distance           | No                         | No              | No      | Yes                        | No        |
| Blue Flag                 | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Pit Window                | Yes (by time) (2)          | Yes (by lap)    | No      | Yes (by time and lap)      | No        |
| Start Performance Summary | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Delta Information         | Yes (3)                    | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Final Laps Announcement   | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |

##### Notes

(1) The iRacing data interface does not provide any real time position information, only a flag whether there are cars on your side. So there is actually no way to safely decide, whether a car is behind you.

(2) It has been reported, that the pit window times in the shared memory data of *Assetto Corsa Competizione* are somewhat spooky. It looks like they are offset from the start of a whole race weekend and therefore may be way off. At least for a quick race, it looks like they are almost correct.

(3) The position and timing data provided by the UDP interface of Assetto Corsa Competizione is asynchronous by design. Therefore it might be possible, that the information provided by the Spotter does not reflect the current race situation exactly. It might be possible. for example, that you get a notification, that you now can overtake your opponent although you overtook him just a second ago.

Commit message:

More tactical advises by the Spotter Part 2

Docs/Virtual Race Spotter.md, after:

## Introduction

Elisa, the Virtual Race Spotter is a part of the Race Assistant family of Simulator Controller. As a spotter, Elisa watches over your car and all the cars around you. Elisa will warn you about critical situations, for example, when a car appears in your blind spot, or when a car is chasing you from behind. Furthermore, Elisa will inform you periodically about other aspects of the traffic around you, for example, when one of the leading cars is closing in from behind and you are getting a blue flag.

## Alerts & Information

The Spotter will give you critical and in most cases real time information about the current race situation. This helps you to keep track and stay out of trouble. In detail:

1. Proximity Alerts

   This real time information will highlight other cars on your side and directly behind you. Elisa will warn you about cars on your left and on your right (as well as three wide situations) and will also inform you, when the situation has cleared up. A warning will also be issued, when a car is very near to your back of your car, typically closing in for a pass maneuver. Elisa will use a path prediction algorithm, therefore sometimes you will get not only a warning that a car is at your rear, but also a hint, on which side the passing maneuver might take place. This may give you the opportunity to respond with countermeasures.

2. Yellow Flag Warnings

   When a yellow flag has been raised, you will get a warning from Elisa. Typically, you will get information about the sector, which is under yellow and sometimes also the distance into the track, where the incident happend. You will get a special warning for full course yellow and Elisa will also information you, when the yellow phase hase ended and the track is green again.

3. Blue Flag Warnings

   Once a lapping car appears behind, you will get a blue flag warning. This typically appears, when the faster car is less than 2 seconds behind. If there is also a direct opponent currently behind you, you will be informed about that as well, so that you can be cautios to not let this car pass together with the lapping car.

4. Pit Window Information

   Elisa will inform you when the timed window or the designated lap for a required pitstop arrived. Elisa will inform you also, when the pit closes again.

5. Start Performance Summary

   You will get an update whether you gained or lost places during the start phase a few laps into the race.

6. Delta Information

   Elisa observes your direct opponents behind and in front of you and informs you, whether you can catch up the car in front or whether you need to pay attention to the car behind you. Please take a look at the dedicated section about [Opponent and Delta Information](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Virtual-Race-Spotter#opponent-and-delta-information) down below for more detailed information.

7. Tactical Advises

   Elisa has quite a good understandig of race tacticts and might give you situation specific hints, how to handle this situations. Please take a look at the dedicated section about [Opponent and Delta Information](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Virtual-Race-Spotter#tactical-advises) down below for more detailed information.

8. Last Laps Announcement

   You will get an announcement a few laps before the end of the race.

All these alerts and announcements can be individually configured or disabled with the configuration tool for each simulator. Please consult the [corresponding documentation](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Installation-&-Configuration#tab-race-spotter) for more information. 

![](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/blob/main/Docs/Images/Configuration%20Tab%2011.JPG)

Please note, that not every simulation will support all these capabilities and that the behaviour will be very different in each simulation. This is due to the fact, that the provided data differs heavily between the different simulations. Please see the section below for detailed information.

### Opponent and Delta Information

Elisa tracks the positions, lap times and the deltas to your own car for four different other cars, the cars directly in front and behind you as well as the car one race position before and one race position behind you:

  - Relevant changes in the deltas to these cars will be updated each sector and the Spotter might inform you about any changes each sector, each lap, each second lap, and so on, according to your choices in the ["Race Spotter" tab in configuration tool](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Installation-&-Configuration#tab-race-spotter). It will take one lap for Elisa to collect all sector timings for each of these four cars, before Elisa will inform you, whether you have gained or lost to the given car. This will be reset, once you have been overtaken or when you overtook the car in front of you.

  - A special case is a situation where you are in attack position to the car in front of you or when the car behind is in attack range. This information will be issued as soon as possible, as long you are faster than the car in front of you or the car behind is faster than you.
  
  - Another special case occurs, when you are approaching a car in front of you which is a lap up or a lap down. Elisa will give you the corresponding information annd additional tactical information about these cars.

When you approach a car in front of you, Elisa will gather all available information for the given car, whether the driver is quite inconsistent or is doing a lot of mistakes, and so on. Depending on the situation, Elisa might give you this information and will ask you to be careful, if necessary.

Elise uses different delta thresholds to decide, whether the situation changed to an extent that an update will be of any value for you. You can define your own thresholds in the "Race Settings" in the ["Session Database"](https://github.com/SeriousOldMan/Simulator-Controller/wiki/Virtual-Race-Engineer#managing-the-session-database). See the table below for the thresholds and their default values.

| Threshold                | Default Value (Seconds) |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------- |
| Lap up car in range      | 1.0                     |
| Lap down car in range    | 2.0                     |
| Attack car in front      | 0.8                     |
| Gained on car in front   | 0.3                     |
| Lost on car in front     | 1.0                     |
| Attack car behind        | 0.8                     |
| Lost on car behind       | 0.3                     |
| Gained on car behind     | 1.5                     |

### Tactical Advises

The Virtual Race Spotter has been trained to detect several typical race situations and will give according advises how you will best handle the corresponding situation. For example will Elisa analyze the laptime difference, when you will be shortly overtaken by another car and will tell you whether it will be possible for you to stay in the slipstream of the faster car. Other adivises willl help you to handle lapped cars, and so on.

### Enabling and disabling specific warnings and announcements

As you have seen above, Elisa will give you a lot of warnings and announcements about traffic and the overall race situation. You may disable these announcements by using a special voice command:

	[Please] No more *announcement* [please]

As you might expect, the word "please" is optional. Available options for *announcement* are: "delta information", "tactical advises", "side alerts", "rear alerts", "blue flag warnings", "yellow flag warnings". After you have disabled one of the warnings (all are enabled or disabled by default according to the settings described above), you can reenable it with the following command:

	[Please] Give me *announcement* [please]

## Simulator Integration

As mentioned, each simulator is different. The Spotter will make as much out of the data supplied by the simulation as possible, as long as a specific information is available, even if it is somewhat restricted. The following table shows you which capability of the Spotter is available in the different simulators.

| Capability                | Assetto Corsa Competizione | Automobilista 2 | iRacing | RaceRoom Racing Experience | rFactor 2 |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------- | --------------- | ------- | -------------------------- | --------- |
| Side Alert                | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Behind Alert              | Yes                        | Yes             | No (1)  | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Yellow Flag               | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Full Course Yellow        | Yes                        | No              | No      | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Sector Yellow             | Yes                        | No              | No      | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Yellow Distance           | No                         | No              | No      | Yes                        | No        |
| Blue Flag                 | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Pit Window                | Yes (by time) (2)          | Yes (by lap)    | No      | Yes (by time and lap)      | No        |
| Start Performance Summary | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Delta Information         | Yes (3)                    | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Final Laps Announcement   | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |
| Tactical Advises          | Yes                        | Yes             | Yes     | Yes                        | Yes       |

##### Notes

(1) The iRacing data interface does not provide any real time position information, only a flag whether there are cars on your side. So there is actually no way to safely decide, whether a car is behind you.

(2) It has been reported, that the pit window times in the shared memory data of *Assetto Corsa Competizione* are somewhat spooky. It looks like they are offset from the start of a whole race weekend and therefore may be way off. At least for a quick race, it looks like they are almost correct.

(3) The position and timing data provided by the UDP interface of Assetto Corsa Competizione is asynchronous by design. Therefore it might be possible, that the information provided by the Spotter does not reflect the current race situation exactly. It might be possible. for example, that you get a notification, that you now can overtake your opponent although you overtook him just a second ago.
